Traffic signs recognition and classification are the integral parts of self-driving vehicles and advanced driver assistance systems. Due to lack of attention and presence of different obstacles many times drivers miss some of the traffic signals which can lead to accidents. With the recent research and advancement in deep learning algorithms along with availability of high performance hardware units, such as graphical processing units (GPU), recognition and classification of traffic signs has become much more efficient and fast as compared to traditional machine learning and computer vision approach. 

There are variety of factors that make the building of system much difficult, some of these are adverse variation due to illumination of captured images, the speed variation of vehicles, orientation of the signals, image distortion etc. To capture the high-quality traffic sign images and other visual feature, a wide-angle camera is mounted in self driving vehicle. The images taken from these cameras are distorted due to several external factors including vehicles speed, sunlight, rain etc. Sample images from GTSRB dataset are shown below.

To solve this problem of recognition and classification of the GTSRB dataset I have followed LeNet architecture and trained a convolutional neural network. I have made a classifier which can be used to classify traffic sign images by extracting relevant features from the training images and use those features to learn the pattern and update the weights and parameters. Once classifier is trained I have used this to classify test images and compared the accuracy. I have used TensorFlow for building the classifier as it is most powerful and easy to use deep learning framework available currently. Python is used as programming language.
